README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TEKIMAX/tekimax-ts/main/apps/docs/public/tekimax-logo.png" alt="Tekimax SDK Logo" width="120" />
  <h1>Tekimax SDK</h1>
  <p><strong>The Universal AI Adapter Layer</strong></p>
  
  <p>
    <a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg" alt="License"></a>
    <a href="https://www.typescriptlang.org/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.0-3178C6.svg" alt="TypeScript"></a>
    <a href="https://tekimax.com"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Standard-Tekimax-000000.svg" alt="Standard"></a>
    <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/tekimax-ts"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/tekimax-ts.svg" alt="NPM Version"></a>
    <a href="https://packagephobia.com/result?p=tekimax-ts"><img src="https://packagephobia.com/badge?p=tekimax-ts" alt="Bundle Size"></a>
  </p>
  
  <p>
    Integrate <strong>OpenAI</strong>, <strong>Anthropic</strong>, <strong>Gemini</strong>, <strong>Ollama</strong>, <strong>Grok</strong>, and <strong>OpenRouter</strong> with a single, type-safe API.
  </p>

  <div>
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenAI-412991?style=for-the-badge&logo=openai&logoColor=white" alt="OpenAI" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Anthropic-D06940?style=for-the-badge&logo=anthropic&logoColor=white" alt="Anthropic" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Gemini-8E75B2?style=for-the-badge&logo=google%20gemini&logoColor=white" alt="Gemini" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Ollama-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=ollama&logoColor=white" alt="Ollama" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Grok-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=x&logoColor=white" alt="Grok" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenRouter-6366F1?style=for-the-badge&logo=openai&logoColor=white" alt="OpenRouter" />
  </div>
</div>

---

## 🚀 The Universal Standard

The **Tekimax SDK** solves the fragmentation of AI APIs. Instead of rewriting your integration code for every provider (handling different request formats, streaming implementations, and error types), you use **one standard interface**.

- **Write Once, Run Anywhere**: Switch between OpenAI (Cloud) and Ollama (Local) with a singe line of config.
- **Type-Safe**: Full TypeScript support with Zod validation for inputs and outputs.
- **Edge Compatible**: Zero-dependency core designed for Vercel Edge, Cloudflare Workers, and simplistic Node.js environments.
- **React Ready**: Includes `useChat` and `useCompletion` hooks for instant UI integration.



## 💻 Installation

```bash
# Install core and your desired adapters
npm install tekimax-ts
```

## � Usage

### 1. Initialize the Client

The `Tekimax` client is the unified entry point. It wraps any provider (OpenAI, Anthropic, Ollama, etc.) and exposes a consistent multi-modal interface.

```typescript
import { 
  Tekimax, 
  OpenAIProvider, 
  AnthropicProvider, 
  OllamaProvider,
  GeminiProvider 
} from 'tekimax-ts'

// OpenAI
const client = new Tekimax({
    provider: new OpenAIProvider({ apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY })
})

// Anthropic
const claude = new Tekimax({
    provider: new AnthropicProvider({ apiKey: process.env.ANTHROPIC_API_KEY })
})

// Ollama (Local)
const local = new Tekimax({
    provider: new OllamaProvider({ baseUrl: 'http://localhost:11434' })
})
```

### 2. Multi-Modal Interfaces

The client is organized into cohesive namespaces:

#### Text (Chat)

```typescript
const response = await client.text.chat.completions.create({
    model: 'gpt-4o',
    messages: [{ role: 'user', content: 'Hello!' }]
})
console.log(response.message.content)
```

#### Images (Generation & Vision)

```typescript
// Generate
const image = await client.images.generate({
    model: 'dall-e-3',
    prompt: 'A cyberpunk city',
    size: '1024x1024'
})

// Analyze (Vision)
const analysis = await client.images.analyze({
    model: 'gpt-4o',
    image: 'https://example.com/image.png',
    prompt: 'Describe this scene'
})
```

#### Audio (TTS)

```typescript
const audio = await client.audio.speak({
    model: 'tts-1',
    input: 'Hello world',
    voice: 'alloy'
})
```

#### Video (Analysis)

```typescript
const analysis = await client.videos.analyze({
    model: 'gemini-1.5-flash',
    video: 'https://example.com/video.mp4',
    prompt: 'Summarize this clip'
})
```

## 🏗️ Monorepo Structure

This repository is managed as a **Turborepo** monorepo.

- **`apps/docs`**: Documentation site (Next.js + Fumadocs).
- **`packages/*`**: Core SDK and Provider Adapters.
- **`tekimax-cli`**: Developer tools for Tekimax.

### Commands

```bash
# Build all packages
npx turbo build

# Run tests
npx turbo test

# Start Docs Site
npx turbo dev --filter=docs
```

## 💖 Support

Tekimax is open source. If you find it valuable, please consider [becoming a sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/TEKIMAX) to support long-term maintenance.

---

<div align="center">
  <p>Built with ❤️ by the Tekimax Team</p>
</div>

Commit message:

feat: add embeddings, image editing, JSON mode, fallback provider, and new SDK features
- Add EmbeddingOptions/EmbeddingResult types and embed() to AIProvider
- Implement embed() in OpenAI (text-embedding-3-small) and Gemini (text-embedding-004)
- Implement editImage() in OpenAI via DALL-E images.edit API
- Add responseFormat (JSON mode) to ChatOptions, supported across all 5 providers
- Add FallbackProvider for automatic multi-provider failover
- Add generateObject() for Zod-based response validation (schema.ts)
- Add estimateCost() for token cost tracking (cost.ts)
- Add withRetry()/createRetryProvider() for exponential backoff (retry.ts)
- Add wrapProvider() middleware with onion-model hooks (middleware.ts)
- Add 6 new documentation guide pages
- Fix README inaccuracies (typos, false Edge claim, duplicate headers)
- Add roadmap to both READMEs
- Security scan: zero leaked keys or secrets

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TEKIMAX/tekimax-ts/main/apps/docs/public/tekimax-logo.png" alt="Tekimax SDK Logo" width="120" />
  <h1>Tekimax SDK</h1>
  <p><strong>The Universal AI Adapter Layer</strong></p>
  
  <p>
    <a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg" alt="License"></a>
    <a href="https://www.typescriptlang.org/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.0-3178C6.svg" alt="TypeScript"></a>
    <a href="https://tekimax.com"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Standard-Tekimax-000000.svg" alt="Standard"></a>
    <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/tekimax-ts"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/tekimax-ts.svg" alt="NPM Version"></a>
    <a href="https://packagephobia.com/result?p=tekimax-ts"><img src="https://packagephobia.com/badge?p=tekimax-ts" alt="Bundle Size"></a>
  </p>
  
  <p>
    Integrate <strong>OpenAI</strong>, <strong>Anthropic</strong>, <strong>Gemini</strong>, <strong>Ollama</strong>, <strong>Grok</strong>, and <strong>OpenRouter</strong> with a single, type-safe API.
  </p>

  <div>
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenAI-412991?style=for-the-badge&logo=openai&logoColor=white" alt="OpenAI" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Anthropic-D06940?style=for-the-badge&logo=anthropic&logoColor=white" alt="Anthropic" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Gemini-8E75B2?style=for-the-badge&logo=google%20gemini&logoColor=white" alt="Gemini" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Ollama-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=ollama&logoColor=white" alt="Ollama" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Grok-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=x&logoColor=white" alt="Grok" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenRouter-6366F1?style=for-the-badge&logo=openai&logoColor=white" alt="OpenRouter" />
  </div>
</div>

---

## 🚀 The Universal Standard

The **Tekimax SDK** solves the fragmentation of AI APIs. Instead of rewriting your integration code for every provider (handling different request formats, streaming implementations, and error types), you use **one standard interface**.

- **Write Once, Run Anywhere**: Switch between OpenAI (Cloud) and Ollama (Local) with a single line of config.
- **Type-Safe**: Full TypeScript support with Zod validation for inputs and outputs.
- **Multi-Modal**: Text, images, audio, video, and embeddings through a unified namespace API.
- **React Ready**: Includes a `useChat` hook for instant UI integration.



## 💻 Installation

```bash
# Install core and your desired adapters
npm install tekimax-ts
```

## 💻 Usage

### 1. Initialize the Client

The `Tekimax` client is the unified entry point. It wraps any provider (OpenAI, Anthropic, Ollama, etc.) and exposes a consistent multi-modal interface.

```typescript
import { 
  Tekimax, 
  OpenAIProvider, 
  AnthropicProvider, 
  OllamaProvider,
  GeminiProvider 
} from 'tekimax-ts'

// OpenAI
const client = new Tekimax({
    provider: new OpenAIProvider({ apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY })
})

// Anthropic
const claude = new Tekimax({
    provider: new AnthropicProvider({ apiKey: process.env.ANTHROPIC_API_KEY })
})

// Ollama (Local)
const local = new Tekimax({
    provider: new OllamaProvider({ baseUrl: 'http://localhost:11434' })
})
```

### 2. Multi-Modal Interfaces

The client is organized into cohesive namespaces:

#### Text (Chat)

```typescript
const response = await client.text.chat.completions.create({
    model: 'gpt-4o',
    messages: [{ role: 'user', content: 'Hello!' }]
})
console.log(response.message.content)
```

#### Images (Generation & Vision)

```typescript
// Generate
const image = await client.images.generate({
    model: 'dall-e-3',
    prompt: 'A cyberpunk city',
    size: '1024x1024'
})

// Analyze (Vision)
const analysis = await client.images.analyze({
    model: 'gpt-4o',
    image: 'https://example.com/image.png',
    prompt: 'Describe this scene'
})
```

#### Audio (TTS)

```typescript
const audio = await client.audio.speak({
    model: 'tts-1',
    input: 'Hello world',
    voice: 'alloy'
})
```

#### Video (Analysis)

```typescript
const analysis = await client.videos.analyze({
    model: 'gemini-1.5-flash',
    video: 'https://example.com/video.mp4',
    prompt: 'Summarize this clip'
})
```

## 🏗️ Monorepo Structure

This repository is managed as a **Turborepo** monorepo.

- **`apps/docs`**: Documentation site (Next.js + Fumadocs).
- **`packages/*`**: Core SDK and Provider Adapters.
- **`tekimax-cli`**: Developer tools for Tekimax.

### Commands

```bash
# Build all packages
npx turbo build

# Run tests
npx turbo test

# Start Docs Site
npx turbo dev --filter=docs
```

## 🗺️ Roadmap

| Feature | Description | Status |
|---------|-------------|--------|
| **Batch API** | OpenAI's Batch API for 50% cost reduction on large jobs. Queue thousands of requests and retrieve results asynchronously. | 🔜 Planned |
| **Edge Runtime** | Cloudflare Workers / Deno support. Current `Buffer` usage blocks edge compatibility — will be replaced with `Uint8Array` and Web Streams. | 🔜 Planned |
| **Assistants / Threads** | Stateful conversation management with persistence. Create threads, append messages, and resume conversations across sessions — backed by [Convex](https://convex.dev). | 🔜 Planned |
| **Fine-tuning API** | Programmatic fine-tuning via OpenAI and Gemini APIs. Upload training data, launch jobs, and deploy custom models through a unified interface. | 🔜 Planned |
| **Observability** | OpenTelemetry spans for every provider call — latency, tokens, cost, and error rate. First-class integration with [Convex](https://convex.dev) for real-time dashboards and analytics. | 🔜 Planned |

> **Want to help?** Pick a feature and open a PR, or join the discussion in [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/TEKIMAX/tekimax-ts/issues).

## 💖 Support

Tekimax is open source. If you find it valuable, please consider [becoming a sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/TEKIMAX) to support long-term maintenance.

---

<div align="center">
  <p>Built with ❤️ by the Tekimax Team</p>
</div>
